-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    SteamPocalypse (Working Title) 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Design Document
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Treatment:

    Imagine a world, much like Renaissance Europe, where the labour of 
    Alchemists bore much more fruit than our own.  A world where the 4 element
    theory was correct, phlogiston theory came into practical application.  
    Instead of the downfall of Alchemy and the rise of Chemistry, Alchemy reins
    supreme. DaVincian machines could be amply powered by highly-efficient, 
    phlogiston-burning steam engines.  Transmutation allowed for the creation 
    of all manner of specialized materials, including metals that would be 
    named from legends.  The very nature of the being was exploited to animate 
    golems made first of wood, then metals...even flesh.  A Utopia.  An era of 
    plenty, prosperity and progress.  It would also be an era of war.  At first 
    it was the have-nots, tired of ever-existing in the shadow of wealthy 
    nations.  Later, it would be among Alchemists and inventors over precious 
    materials and secrets.  Near the end, great nations wrought annihilation 
    upon each other over petty insults, political scheming, mistrust, revenge, 
    and jealousy.

    How it all ended is still a mystery.  It was hundreds of years ago and most
    folk are too worried about making it through the next winter to be bothered 
    with anything else.  Some say the very Earth was wounded in some great 
    attack, other say Sol grew weary of his children's hubris and squabbling, 
    some say we mostly just killed each other off until there was nobody left.  

    Monstrosities roam the wilds, relics of beasts created for war, hungry and 
    spiteful.  Huge regions are impossibly contrasted, some with strange 
    climates, perpetual darkness, noxious or maddening fumes, or merely immense
    craters that make travel nearly impossible.  Few are brave enough to 
    venture beyond where they are born, and most folk live as primitives.  
    Hunter-gatherer tribes roam in some regions and tiny farm-villages eke 
    existences out of the soil.  But there are a handful that strive to 
    understand the past and the power of Alchemy.  You are one of those few.



Goals:

- Crafting based roguelike.  A large part of progression will be finding 
alchemical secrets, collecting the reagents and crafting items.  Traps, 
grenades, specialized metals, fancy crossbows and firearms will provide a 
large array of weapons beyond sword, axe, spear.

- Reward and encourage exploration.  Alchemical secrets and reagents will be 
scattered with the intent of allowing a character to be more powerful the 
farther afield they roam.  This will also be a balancing mechanism since a 
character will concequently be older the more exploration they have done.

- More than a hack-n-slash.  I aim to provide tactical combat powered by 
choices.  There will be plenty of enemies with various behaviours, strengths 
and weaknesses for a clever player to strategize against.

- Beautiful.  A strange goal for an ASCII game, but I firmly believe that 
with a well chosen font and attention to colour and detail an eye-pleasing 
ASCII game is achievable.  The game will have varied characters and colours 
to represent meadow, grass, brush, ferns, dirt, stone, mud, marsh...rather than
floor.  Dungeons are areas will be constructed with pallets to ensure they help
evoke their theme.

- Unique and understandable RPG system.  Many roguelikes borrow from d20, others 
have extremely complex rolling and resolution mechanics.  As a hobby table-top 
system creator, I will draft and implement a unique and transparent rolling and 
resolution system that is intuitive and satisfying. 
